SDK proto compatibility guarantees and deprecation policies documentation (#3774)
googleforgames/agones: site/content/en/docs/Installation/upgrading.md

## SDK Deprecation Policies as of Agones v1.43.0
Breaking changes will be called out in upgrade documentation to allow admins to plan their upgrades.
### Stable Deprecation Policies
A Stable API may be marked as deprecated in release X and removed from Stable in release X+10.
### Beta Deprecation Policies
When a feature graduates from Beta to Stable at release X the API is in SDK proto surfaces from release X to release X+5. The Beta API is marked as deprecated in release X and removed from Beta in release X+5.
A Beta API may be marked as deprecated in release X and removed from Beta in release X+5 without the API graduating to Stable.
### Alpha Deprecation Policies
There is no guaranteed proto compatibility between releases for Alpha SDK protos. When an Alpha API graduates to Beta the API will be deleted from the Alpha proto with no overlapping release.
An API may be removed from the Alpha proto during any release without graduating to Beta.

## SDK Server APIs and Stability Levels

"Legacy" indicates that this API has been in the SDK Server in a release before we began tracking proto compatibility. \

> The Actions may differ from the [Client SDKs]({{< relref "../guides/Client SDKs/_index.md" >}}) depending on how each Client SDK is implemented.

Reviewer: I think you can use a `{{< relref "Client SDKs" >}}` here, see https://github.com/googleforgames/agones/blob/db847357163b7ca974553bdf536a2541624ff12b/site/content/en/docs/Advanced/system-diagram.md?plain=1#L49 as an example. (I just noticed how long that line is, didn't even notice in VSCode, woops.)

   between the Agones controller being recreated and GameServers being deleted doesn't occur, and GameServers can end up stuck in erroneous states.
1. Start and complete your control plane upgrade(s).
1. Start and complete your node upgrades.
1. Scale your Fleets back up and/or recreate your GameServers.
1. Run any other tests to ensure the Agones installation is still working as expected.
1. Close your maintenance window.
7. Congratulations - you have now upgraded to a new version of Kubernetes! 👍

{{% feature publishVersion="1.41.0" %}}

> ## SDK Proto Compatibility Guarantees as of Agones v1.41.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## SDK Proto Compatibility Guarantees
```

As per above, I think we need a _why_ header and description - and probably have a alert box of some kind saying something like "we're start work on in-place upgrades as of version 1.41.0, it's currently Alpha... etc etc"

WDYT?

Author: This is in place upgrades adjacent. The guarantees are still valid even if the user does not use in place upgrades, although it is necessary for in place upgrades to have a guaranteed window of compatibility.

> ## SDK Proto Compatibility Guarantees as of Agones v1.41.0

Author: This reason for "proto" is specifically SDK proto / SDK Server and does not apply to the client. The SDK client could be well out of date. For instance the C++, Rust, Unity, and Unreal clients don't have CountsAndLists at all even though it's going into Beta, and if no one updates them they may not have those features in GA. So it should be clear to the reader that this guarantee does not apply to the SDK clients. (Also the reason for using "proto" instead of "API" which is a bit more ambiguous.) If we were guaranteeing SDK clients we would need to have a separate discussion about deprecating clients if no one updates them regularly.

> ## SDK Proto Compatibility Guarantees as of Agones v1.41.0

Reviewer 2: But as an end user I don't care about the proto - I want to know if I am using my SDK client, will that stay backward compatible.

Much of this is covered in this section of the design doc: https://github.com/googleforgames/agones/issues/3766#client-sdks - which for this documentation is the more relevant part.

> The SDK client could be well out of date.

Why would that mater?

> or instance the C++, Rust, Unity, and Unreal clients don't have CountsAndLists at all even though it's going into Beta, and if no one updates them they may not have those features in GA.

Not an issue for backward or forward compatability.

> If we were guaranteeing SDK clients we would need to have a separate discussion about deprecating clients if no one updates them regularly.

I'm not sure why we would do that? Assuming the proto doesn't change (which it shouldn't for stable APIs, they should just work forever -- but the linked above RFC covers this.

> ## SDK Proto Compatibility Guarantees as of Agones v1.41.0

Reviewer 2: > For instance if the client has an API in Beta and no one moves it to GA, the Beta will break after 5 releases, so anyone using that client can't move past the version when it's removed from Beta

I don't think it will. There implementation doesn't go away - it's still there, it will all still work.

> Beta Client SDK APIs should be considered generally stable, but we may alter the parameters/returns if we need to

Beta APIs _may_ change, but that's also the risk of using Beta APIs - but are definitely considered more stable than Alpha.

 > We foresee that updating Client SDKs in game server binaries will be yearly toil, if using Stable APIs, or semiannual toil, if using any Beta API; this toil can be as simple as verifying that there were no deprecations in the period involved. Given how stable our core APIs have been, it may be possible to go multiple years without updating the Client SDK.

I am seeing some more room here to flesh out exactly what is guaranteed with a Beta SDK though - I think there's some ambiguity here that could be more concrete for sure.

Our [SDK Server]({{< relref "../guides/Client SDKs/sdk-server.md" >}}) compatibility contract: A

> game server binary using Beta and Stable SDKs will remain compatible with a _newer_ `sdk-server`,

Reviewer 2: And same throughout. I don't think it's important to mention the sidecar server.

within possible deprecation windows:
- If your game server uses a non-deprecated Stable API, your binary will be compatible for 10
releases (~1y) starting from the SDK version packaged.
  - For example, if the game server uses non-deprecated stable APIs in the 1.40 SDK, it will be
  compatible through the 1.50 SDK.
  - Stable APIs will almost certainly be compatible beyond 10 releases, but 10 releases is
  guaranteed.
- If your game server uses a non-deprecated Beta API, your binary will be compatible for 5 releases
(~6mo).

> - Alpha SDK Protos are subject to change between releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Alpha SDK APIs are subject to change between releases.
```

  - In Alpha, incompatible changes retaining the same SDK proto message name are allowed.
  - When we make incompatible Alpha changes, we will document the APIs involved.

## SDK Deprecation Policies as of Agones v1.41.0
Breaking changes will be called out in upgrade documentation to allow admins to plan their upgrades.
### Stable Deprecation Policies
A Stable API may be marked as deprecated in release X and removed from Stable in release X+10.
### Beta Deprecation Policies
When a feature graduates from Beta to Stable at release X, the API will be present in both Beta and
Stable surfaces from release X to release X+5. The Beta API is marked as deprecated in release X and
removed from Beta in release X+5.
A Beta API may be marked as deprecated in release X and removed from Beta in release X+5 without the
API graduating to Stable.
### Alpha Deprecation Policies
There is no guaranteed proto compatibility between releases for Alpha SDK protos. When an Alpha API
graduates to Beta the API will be deleted from the Alpha proto with no overlapping release.
An API may be removed from the Alpha proto during any release without graduating to Beta.

> ## SDK Server APIs and Stability Levels

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## SDK APIs and Stability Levels
```

"Legacy" indicates that this API has been in the SDK Server in a release before we began tracking

> proto compatibility. \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SDK compatibility. \
```

   between the Agones controller being recreated and GameServers being deleted doesn't occur, and GameServers can end up stuck in erroneous states.
1. Start and complete your control plane upgrade(s).
1. Start and complete your node upgrades.
1. Scale your Fleets back up and/or recreate your GameServers.
1. Run any other tests to ensure the Agones installation is still working as expected.
1. Close your maintenance window.
7. Congratulations - you have now upgraded to a new version of Kubernetes! 👍

{{% feature publishVersion="1.41.0" %}}
## SDK Compatibility Guarantees

> In order to allow compatibility between game server binaries and `sdk-server`, a game server binary

Reviewer 2: I was going back through the RFC - and this is probably a better paragraph to start with, then we can get into the details:
https://github.com/googleforgames/agones/issues/3766#client-sdks

   between the Agones controller being recreated and GameServers being deleted doesn't occur, and GameServers can end up stuck in erroneous states.
1. Start and complete your control plane upgrade(s).
1. Start and complete your node upgrades.
1. Scale your Fleets back up and/or recreate your GameServers.
1. Run any other tests to ensure the Agones installation is still working as expected.
1. Close your maintenance window.
7. Congratulations - you have now upgraded to a new version of Kubernetes! 👍

{{% feature publishVersion="1.41.0" %}}
## SDK Compatibility Guarantees

The SDK compatibility contract aims to ensure smooth upgrades and reduce the need for frequent
binary redeployments for game server users.

> What’s the point of having a compatibility guarantee?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

What’s the point of having a compatibility guarantee?
```
Just so we get a new paragraph - otherwise it stays same line.

If you want to break to a newline in markdown, it's `   ` (which your editor may trim).

There's a few formatting bits in a few places like this. Might want to `make site-server` to give it a once over to ensure it's formatted how you want.

> Goal: Reduce user toil by minimizing the need for frequent binary redeployments due to SDK changes.

Reviewer 2: Love this!

Versioning: Clear documentation of API maturity levels and history (Stable, Beta, Alpha) with release information.

Our SDK Server compatibility contract as of Agones v1.41.0: A
game server binary using Beta and Stable SDKs will remain compatible with a _newer_ Agones Release,
within possible deprecation windows:
- If your game server uses a non-deprecated Stable API, your binary will be compatible for 10

> releases (~1y) starting from the SDK version packaged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
releases (~1y) or more starting from the SDK version packaged.
```

WDYT? It read like it'll stop working after 1y (even though there is a line below it).

  - For example, if the game server uses non-deprecated stable APIs in the 1.40 SDK, it will be
  compatible through the 1.50 SDK.

>   - Stable APIs will almost certainly be compatible beyond 10 releases, but 10 releases is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Stable APIs will almost certainly be compatible beyond 10 releases, as deprecation of stable APIs is rare, but 10 releases is
```

Something like that?

  guaranteed.
- If your game server uses a non-deprecated Beta API, your binary will be compatible for 5 releases

> (~6mo).- Alpha SDK APIs are subject to change between releases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(~6mo).
- Alpha SDK APIs are subject to change between releases.
```

I think this is meant to be a new line?

  - A game server binary using Alpha SDKs may not be compatible with a newer sdk-server.
  - In Alpha, incompatible changes retaining the same SDK proto message name are allowed.
  - When we make incompatible Alpha changes, we will document the APIs involved.

> ## SDK Deprecation Policies as of Agones v1.41.0

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## SDK Deprecation Policies as of Agones
```

- Client SDK updates are not mandatory for game server binaries except for SDK proto deprecations or
breaking Alpha API changes.

> - You can continue to use a binary compiled several months ago working, except in the case of a deprecation.

Reviewer 2: This sentence is a bit weird, can you rephrase?

Author: wtyt?

- Breaking changes will be called out in upgrade documentation to allow admins to plan their upgrades.

- Expect to check if there are breaking changes to Stable APIs you use yearly or Beta APIs semi-annually.

### Stable Deprecation Policies

A Stable API may be marked as deprecated in release X and removed from Stable in release X+10.

### Beta Deprecation Policies

> When a feature graduates from Beta to Stable at release X, the API will be present in both Beta and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a SDK API feature graduates from Beta to Stable at release X, the API will be present in both Beta and
```

Stable surfaces from release X to release X+5. The Beta API is marked as deprecated in release X and
removed from Beta in release X+5.
A Beta API may be marked as deprecated in release X and removed from Beta in release X+5 without the

> API graduating to Stable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
API graduating to Stable if it's determined that changes need to be made to the Beta API.
```

Just to give some reasoning.

### Alpha Deprecation Policies

There is no guaranteed proto compatibility between releases for Alpha SDK protos. When an Alpha API
graduates to Beta the API will be deleted from the Alpha proto with no overlapping release.
An API may be removed from the Alpha proto during any release without graduating to Beta.

## SDK APIs and Stability Levels

"Legacy" indicates that this API has been in the SDK Server in a release before we began tracking

> SDK compatibility. \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SDK compatibility with release 1.41.0. \
```

I think that's enough, so we don't need it in the header.

7. Congratulations - you have now upgraded to a new version of Kubernetes! 👍

{{% feature publishVersion="1.41.0" %}}
## SDK Compatibility Guarantees

The SDK compatibility contract aims to ensure smooth upgrades and reduce the need for frequent
binary redeployments for game server users.

What’s the point of having a compatibility guarantee?
Goal: Reduce user toil by minimizing the need for frequent binary redeployments due to SDK changes.
Versioning: Clear documentation of API maturity levels and history (Stable, Beta, Alpha) with
release information.

Our SDK Server compatibility contract as of Agones v1.41.0: A
game server binary using Beta and Stable SDKs will remain compatible with a _newer_ Agones Release,
within possible deprecation windows:
- If your game server uses a non-deprecated Stable API, your binary will be compatible for 10
releases (~1y) or more starting from the SDK version packaged.
  - For example, if the game server uses non-deprecated stable APIs in the 1.40 SDK, it will be
  compatible through the 1.50 SDK.
  - Stable APIs will almost certainly be compatible beyond 10 releases, as deprecation of stable
  APIs is rare, but 10 releases is guaranteed.

> - If your game server uses a non-deprecated Beta API, your binary will be compatible for 5 releases

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If your game server uses a non-deprecated Beta API, your binary will be guaranteed compatible for 5 releases, but may be compatible past that point.
```

(~6mo).
- Alpha SDK APIs are subject to change between releases.
  - A game server binary using Alpha SDKs may not be compatible with a newer Agones release if
  breaking changes have been made between releases.
  - When we make incompatible Alpha changes, we will document the APIs involved.

## SDK Deprecation Policies as of Agones

> - Client SDK updates are not mandatory for game server binaries except for SDK proto deprecations or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Client SDK updates are not mandatory for game server binaries except for SDK when the underlying proto format has deprecations or
```

binary redeployments for game server users.

What’s the point of having a compatibility guarantee?
Goal: Reduce user toil by minimizing the need for frequent binary redeployments due to SDK changes.
Versioning: Clear documentation of API maturity levels and history (Stable, Beta, Alpha) with
release information.

Our SDK Server compatibility contract as of Agones v1.41.0: A
game server binary using Beta and Stable SDKs will remain compatible with a _newer_ Agones Release,
within possible deprecation windows:
- If your game server uses a non-deprecated Stable API, your binary will be compatible for 10
releases (~1y) or more starting from the SDK version packaged.
  - For example, if the game server uses non-deprecated stable APIs in the 1.40 SDK, it will be
  compatible through the 1.50 SDK.
  - Stable APIs will almost certainly be compatible beyond 10 releases, as deprecation of stable
  APIs is rare, but 10 releases is guaranteed.
- If your game server uses a non-deprecated Beta API, your binary will be compatible for 5 releases
(~6mo).
- Alpha SDK APIs are subject to change between releases.

>   - A game server binary using Alpha SDKs may not be compatible with a newer sdk-server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - A game server binary using Alpha SDKs may not be compatible with a newer Agones release if brewing changes have been made between releases.
```

>   - In Alpha, incompatible changes retaining the same SDK proto message name are allowed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - In Alpha, incompatible SDK changes retaining the same SDK proto message formats will continue to work.
```

Author: This sentence has a slightly different meaning. Generally with proto messages a field is immutable -- if you want to make a change to a field you have to deprecate the field and create a new field with a different name. This is saying we allow changes to existing fields for Alpha only protos.

Reviewer 2: oh yeah, I get you!

Since we say "  - A game server binary using Alpha SDKs may not be compatible with a newer Agones release if
  breaking changes have been made between releases." - maybe we drop this line. I don't think we need to document how it could break? WDYT?

Reviewer 2: We can document in the release notes when breaks happen (which we say we will do).

  - When we make incompatible Alpha changes, we will document the APIs involved.

## SDK Deprecation Policies as of Agones

- Client SDK updates are not mandatory for game server binaries except for SDK proto deprecations or
breaking Alpha API changes.

> - A binary compiled several months ago should continue to work, except in the case of a deprecation.

Reviewer 2: I'm leaning towards removing this line. I think it's redundant since you say basically the same thing in the line above. WDYT?

Author: Sounds good, less is usually more.

- Breaking changes will be called out in upgrade documentation to allow admins to plan their upgrades.

- Expect to check if there are breaking changes to Stable APIs you use yearly or Beta APIs semi-annually.

### Stable Deprecation Policies

A Stable API may be marked as deprecated in release X and removed from Stable in release X+10.

### Beta Deprecation Policies

When a SDK API feature graduates from Beta to Stable at release X, the API will be present in both Beta and
Stable surfaces from release X to release X+5. The Beta API is marked as deprecated in release X and
removed from Beta in release X+5.
A Beta API may be marked as deprecated in release X and removed from Beta in release X+5 without the
API graduating to Stable if it's determined that changes need to be made to the Beta API.

### Alpha Deprecation Policies

> There is no guaranteed proto compatibility between releases for Alpha SDK protos. When an Alpha API

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There is no guaranteed compatibility between releases for Alpha SDKs. When an Alpha API
```

> graduates to Beta the API will be deleted from the Alpha proto with no overlapping release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
graduates to Beta the API will be deleted from the Alpha SDK with no overlapping release.
```

> An API may be removed from the Alpha proto during any release without graduating to Beta.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An API may be removed from the Alpha SDK during any release without graduating to Beta.
```
